MIDTERM DESCRIPTION

Interactive Piano Simon Says Game

The game is essentially based off a simple piano graphic (generated by rectangles and lines in the sketch file). The premise of the game is similar to other classic “simon-says” games. One at a time, a single key on the piano will be highlighted a certain color, and the user must memorize and repeat the pattern by clicking the same keys on the piano in the same order. When the user clicks the correct pattern, "Win" appears, and the user can click the start button to play again. If the user clicks the wrong pattern, "Lose" appears, as well as the start button to play again.

Long Term Goals:

When the user clicks through the correct pattern, they do not win, rather, the pattern will play again, adding on an additional note to the pattern for the user to play back.

Epic Goals:

Adding the actual key tones of the piano to play when they are highlighted.
Having the piano play a song rather than random notes.


CODE PLAN

Inputs:

Button: Click button to start
mousePressed: User will click on keys to copy pattern intially displayed

Outputs:

Fill Array: Once start button is clicked, a single key will be highlited one at a time to form a pattern
    
Text: After user clicks on piano keys to form their own pattern, text will appear to indicate if the user won/lost

Button: button will hide when game starts and appear when game is won/lost to start over
    

Psuedocode:
    
    
1. Button, click to start
2. game = true
3. Button hides
4. playerArray [] (resets)
5. FillArray begins (highlighting piano keys) by using a counter and millis
6. When counter reaches length of array, counter = 0
7. Game = false
8. Checking = true
9. Divide piano keys by using sections, and map the mouse between sections to    deliniate where the user is clicking
10. function(mousePressed), if checking = true
11. Use a series of else/if statements to push values for the playerArray (generates values depending on which piano keys the user clicks on--"current section")
12. Compare the fillArray and playerArray within a for loop
13. If both arrays do not match, win = false, lost = true
14. If both arrays match, win = true, lost = false
15. either way, doneChecking = true
16. If doneChecking = true, lost = true and win = false, display text "LOSE!"     and show start button to begin new game and reset game
17. If doneChecking = true, lost = false and win = true, display text "WIN!"     and show start button to begin new game and reset game
18. Repeat to step 1

NOTE: In my particular code, there is an additional "newGame" button that is always hidden. The user does not need to see it or click it, but some componnet of it coincides with the start button, allowing it reset the game once it has already been played. 
    
    
    
    
    






